spatial covariance matrix (#105)
openpharma/mmrm: vignettes/covariance.Rmd

variance parameters, otherwise we obtain the heterogeneous compound
symmetry covariance structure with $k = m + 1$ variance parameters.

> # Spatial Covariance Structure

Reviewer: Can we rename to "Euclidean" ?

Reviewer 2: "Covariance structures induced by covariance functions" ?

"Gaussian process covariance structures"?

special case: stationary covariance functions based on Euclidean distance. I guess the best name depends a bit on whether there is any chance that we might want to support more covariance functions.

Reviewer: I think we keep it to Euclidean for the time being. Anyway I don't see large demand for these.

variance parameters, otherwise we obtain the heterogeneous compound
symmetry covariance structure with $k = m + 1$ variance parameters.

# Spatial Covariance Structure

Spatial covariance structures, unlike other covariance structures,

> does not require that the timepoints be consistent between subjects.
> Instead, as long as the distance between visits can be quantified,
> the spatial covariance structure can be applied.
> Euclidean distance is the most common case.
> For each subject, the covariance structure can be different,
> as they can have totally different timepoints.
> Only homogeneous structures are allowed(the variance is constant in all timepoints).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
does not require that the timepoints are consistent between subjects.
Instead, as long as the distance between visits can be quantified in terms of time and/or other coordinates,
the spatial covariance structure can be applied.
Euclidean distance is the most common case.
For each subject, the covariance structure can be different.
Only homogeneous structures are allowed (i.e. a common variance is used).
```

## Spatial exponential

For spatial exponential, the covariance structure is defined as follows:

\[
  \rho_{ij} = \rho^{-d_{ij}}
\]

where $d_{ij}$ is the distance between time point $i$ and time point $j$,

A total number of parameters $k = 2$ is needed:

The parameterization for $\theta$ is a little different from previous examples.
In previous examples, $\rho$ can take values from -1 to 1, but here we need to restrict $\rho$ to (0, 1).
Hence we have the following parametrization form.

\[

>   \theta = (\log(\sigma), \log(-\log(\rho)))

Reviewer: I think logit is just more natural to map (0,1) to real line, there should not be a measureable speed disadvantage

Hence we have the following parametrization form.

\[

>   \theta = (\log(\sigma), logit(\rho)))

Reviewer: you can declare this as math operator then use the command here, then it renders upright (same as log)
